[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: This is a part of that I
think you all will be really interested in
and it's very specific to webpack.
So, let me just catch myself up
on my notes here, very quick.
>> Kent C Dodds: So, there are several
dependencies that we need to
install for this.
But this is gonna be our first
loader that we implement.
So if you remember before,
we said that, for
webpack to do its magic on
individual files, it uses loaders.
And we say, okay, we want this ES6
file to be transpiled into ES5, so
we can ship it to old browsers.
So the way that we configure that here
is we say, module and that is an object.
And this takes several properties to
configure how webpack resolves modules and
what it does with with different modules.
But one of those is a loaders array.
Where we would put each one of the loaders
that we want to have applied to our files.
A loader is an object that consists of
a couple properties that are important for
it to know which files
to apply loaders to.
And what loaders to apply
when it hits those files.
The first property is the what
files to apply these loaders to.
And that will be a test and
that's a regex and so
we want this to apply to
all JavaScript files.
So what's the common thing
about JavaScript files,
like the one common thing
about all JavaScript files?
Sorry, as far as the file
name's concerned?
>> Students: .js.
>> Kent C Dodds: .js, yeah.
So anything that ends in .js, and
we'll add the $ to say it ends in .js,
we're going to pipe through this loader.
And then the loaders that we're going to
apply, we're only going to apply one,
and that is babel.
And then there's one other
problem with this and that is,
once we start adding
dependencies from NPM,
we're going to start transpiling
all of those also through babel.
And if those library authors are doing
what they're supposed to be doing,
they'll be transpiling it for
you before they publish it.
And so, this is a wasted effort
on your part to transpile again.
And so
you can say exclude: /node_modules/.
So anything that has node modules in
the in the file path will be excluded
from the transpilation process.
And that's everything that we have to
change about our webpack config to get
transpilation working.
We have to also install
a couple dependencies.
But you already have those installed,
so actually,
you should be able to run webpack dev
server and everything should work.
But does anybody have any questions?
Okay, sweet.
So we'll-
>> Speaker 3: A couple here.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: They're asking
what branch that you're on.
>> Kent C Dodds: Sorry.
Yeah, I'm jumping around like crazy,
aren't I?
I forgot the hotkey to
open another one of these.
So right now it's on require-everything.
If you look at the slides, that's
probably the best way to follow along.
I'll copy the URL to the slide
that I'm on right now.
And at the bottom of each
exercise slide is the next branch
that you're going to be checking out.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: And
then the next question was, so
when webpack is parsing files looking for
require import statements.
Or I guess he's asking is that correct?
So when it finds one, it looks for
the thing named by the import require
in public path or node modules.
And you might wanna read that, it's.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
Yeah, so
webpack resolves the requirement or
import statements the same way
that the CommonJS spec specifies.
And so if you're familiar with
node programming, then yeah,
there are a couple of
things that determine this.
So if I say require('lodash'),
and then it says okay,
this isn't an absolute path, it's not a
relative path, it's just the module name.
So I'm gonna look for the closest
node module's parent directory to me,
that has a lodash module inside of it.
So it will go into known modules here,
and it'll look, okay, find lodash for me.
That's how it will resolve and then it
also actually uses like package Json to
find the main and all kinds of stuff.
I would recommend that everybody
learn about how dependency
resolution works in CommonJS.
That's really really valuable to know.
So another way that you can do
this is require('./foo') and
that will look relative to
the current file that you're in and
find the file that's called foo.
It'll look for foo.js,
that's the default extension, so
you don't need to put
the extension there necessarily.
And then there's another way that you can
do it and that's the absolute path and
that will look for foo.js in
the root directory of your machine.
So you pretty much never do this.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Why is the exclude value not
in quotes?
>> Kent C Dodds: Sorry?
>> Speaker 3: The exclude value,
why is that not in quotes?
>> Speaker 4: It's a regex.
>> Speaker 3: Regex.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes, it's a regex but
what is the question?
>> Speaker 3: That was
the question sort of?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: And then another one is,
isn't it redundant to name the file
webpack.config with babel and
then also add it to the loader?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, good question.
So I probably shouldn't have
done the whole babel thing.
I thought it would be helpful,
but I knew it would be confusing.
So the webpackconfig.babel is supposed
to just take your webpack configuration,
in here, just this code, right here,
in this one file, and transpile it.
It does nothing with
your source code at all.
Sorry, that was a bad call, last night.
[LAUGH] Okay any other questions?
Has anybody got in the webpack server to
start running with this configuration?
Okay, sweet.
So you should be able to, whoops.
You know what?
We have one other thing
that we need to do,
and that is we need to add a babelrc file.
By default babel is going to
not do anything to your code.
It's gonna take it, create an AST out of
it and then generate that back into code.
It does nothing with it.
And so
you need to add some configuration for
babel to say these are are the features
of ES6 or ES2016 or
even Stage 2 features
that aren't released yet.
These are the things that
I want to have configured.
And so I'm not actually going to go
through creating that because we
are still behind.
I'm going to show you what that looks like
and you can come back to it later and and
try it out.
But here,
I'll just create the file right here.
It's in your root directory right
there with the cool logo if you've got
my Adam plug-in.
And then you would, oops, just take,
yeah, this is the configuration for it.
You specify some presets.
I wanna use the es2015 preset,
the es2016 preset.
Sorry, ES6, ES2015, same thing.
I called it ES6 because that's what it was
called before they changed the name and
they can pry that from
my cold dead fingers.
But I'm all onboard with ES2016 for
the two features that we got there.
And then Stage 2 features, that includes
a sync away, trailing function,
on parameter calls, and
arguments, and stuff.
Cool stuff that we get.
And here are the dependencies that
you need for all those things.
So here's that es2015 preset,
es2016 preset and the Stage 2 preset.
babel-core is a pure
dependency to babel-loader, so
that's why you need to
have that installed also.
And then babel-loader is tied
to this loaders: ( 'babel' ).
So you need to have bbabel-loader
installed to use it right here.
And also, as just kind of a fun fact,
you can specify it like that as well,
those are equivalent.
webpack will look up dash loader
in your dependencies as well.
One other fun fact is if you do
want to write a custom loader for
your project, then you can also
pass in another loader here.
You could say resolve and
then ('./foo-bar/my-loader.js'), whatever.
So it'd be the path to
the loader that you wanna use.
Right here, we're not actually using
multiple loaders in this array, but
for our CSS we will.
And I'll show you that in a little bit.